Documentation on using HTC (#535)
EGI-Federation/documentation: content/en/users/tutorials/htc-job-submission/_index.md

> ---

Reviewer: as the list of tutorials is growing, maybe we could start grouping therm by area? like data, compute, etc?

Author: Yes, it could make sense, I wasn't sure how to order them. But it should be discussed and this is for a later/separate PR.
We should also ensure that we properly link them from where users can found them, on the various service specific pages.

Author: Closing, to be discussed elsewhere/at a later stage.

type: docs
weight: 160
description: >
  Submitting High Throughput Compute jobs
---

## Overview

This tutorial describes how to submit
[High Throughput Compute (HTC)](../../compute/high-throughput-compute) jobs
using command-line.

## Prerequisites

To submit an EGI HTC job, you will have to:

1. Obtain an X.509 certificate. The certificates are issued by Certification
   Authorities (CAs) part of the
   [European Policy Management Authority for Grid Authentication](https://www.eugridpma.org)
   (EUGridPMA), which is also part of the
   [International Global Trust Federation](https://www.igtf.net) (IGTF).
1. Enrol into a VO having access to HTC resources.

> This tutorial will be using `dteam` a test Virtual Organisation that can be
> used by resource providers, commands should be adjusted to the appropriate VO.

## Step 1: getting access to a User Interface (UI)

In order to interact with HTC resources, you should have access to a
`User Interface`, often referred to as a `UI`. This software environment will
provide all the tools required to interact with the different middleware, as
different sites can be using different Computing Element (CE), such as

> HTCondorCE and ARC-CE (CREAM is a legacy software stack that is now more

Reviewer: now-> not
```suggestion
HTCondorCE and ARC-CE (CREAM is a legacy software stack that is not
```

officially supported).

Different possibilities are available to access an UI:

- Having access to an UI provided by/for your community
- Deploying a UI

### Deploying an UI

The UI is available as a package in the [UMD](https://go.egi.eu/umd) software

> distribution, but it will also required additional software and configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distribution, but it will also require additional software and configuration.
```

In order to help with deploying an UI, different solutions are possible:

- Some
  [Ansible roles](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/playbooks_reuse_roles.html)
  are available in the
  [EGI Federation GitHub organisation](https://github.com/EGI-Federation?q=ansible-role),
  mainly [ansible-role-ui](https://github.com/EGI-Federation/ansible-role-ui)
  that should be used together with
  [ansible-role-VOMS-client](https://github.com/EGI-Federation/ansible-role-VOMS-client),
  providing software and material required for the authentication and
  authorisation, and
  [ansible-role-umd](https://github.com/EGI-Federation/ansible-role-umd)
  configuring the software repositories from where all the software will be
  installed.
- The repository

>   [ui-deployment](https://github.com/EGI-Federation/ui-deployment) provides an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [ui-deployment](https://github.com/EGI-Federation/ui-deployment) provides a
```

  [terraform](https://terraform.io) based deployment allowing to deploy a
  `User Interface (UI)` in a

>   [Cloud Compute virtual machine](../../compute/cloud-compute). This integrated

Reviewer: I don't understand what do you mean with this last phrase

Author: Yes, apparently missing some words :)
Will recheck/update this part, and add a note on setting it up manually, thanks!

Author: I've updated this part, is it better now?

Reviewer: good!

    '(&(objectClass=GlueCE)(GlueCEUniqueID=condorce1.ciemat.es:9619/condorce1.ciemat.es-condor))' \
    GlueCEInfoHostName GlueCEUniqueID \
    GlueCEInfoJobManager GlueCEImplementationName GlueCEImplementationVersion \
    GlueCEInfoLRMSType GlueCEInfoLRMSVersion \
    GlueCEAccessControlBaseRule \
    GlueCEInfoTotalCPUs \
    GlueCEStateStatus

# Querying information about the ARC CE
$ ldapsearch -x -LLL -H ldap://lcg-bdii.egi.eu:2170 \
    -b "Mds-Vo-Name=local,o=grid" \
    '(&(objectClass=GlueCE)(GlueCEUniqueID=alex4.nipne.ro:2811/nordugrid-SLURM-dteam))'

# Limiting output for the ARC CE
$ ldapsearch -x -LLL -H ldap://lcg-bdii.egi.eu:2170 \
    -b "Mds-Vo-Name=local,o=grid" \
    '(&(objectClass=GlueCE)(GlueCEUniqueID=alex4.nipne.ro:2811/nordugrid-SLURM-dteam))' \
    GlueCEInfoHostName GlueCEUniqueID \
    GlueCEInfoJobManager GlueCEImplementationName GlueCEImplementationVersion \
    GlueCEInfoLRMSType GlueCEInfoLRMSVersion \
    GlueCEAccessControlBaseRule \
    GlueCEInfoTotalCPUs \
    GlueCEStateStatus
```

## Step 4: submitting and managing jobs

### To an HTCondorCE Computing Element

The `condor` package will install all the required dependencies.

```shell

> # XXX probably to be added to the UI ansible role

Reviewer: to be removed?

Author: Yes, will move this elsewhere.

# Monitoring the status of the job
# Jobs will be in state Finished once completed
$ arcstat "$JOB_ID"

# Use -l parameter with arcstat to get more information on the status of the Job
$ arcstat -l "$JOB_ID"

# Retrieve output of finished job
# Retrieve output files of the finished job, removing them from the server
$ arcget "$JOB_ID"

Results stored at: Ow7KmRKv71nuvw3Vp3UrRNqABFKDmABFKDmfJKDmABFKDmoeT5zn
Jobs processed: 1, successfully retrieved: 1, successfully cleaned: 1
```

Instead of manually selecting a site, it's possible to do some automatic
selection from CE registered in a central registry, such as `nordugrid.org`.

```shell
# Automatic selection on the CE in the nordugrid.org registry
$ arcsub --jobdescrfile testjob.xrsl --registry nordugrid.org
(...)
gsiftp://vm3.tier2.hep.manchester.ac.uk:2811/jobs/...
JOB_ID="gsiftp://vm3.tier2.hep.manchester.ac.uk:2811/jobs/.."

# Use -l paramter to get more information on the status of the Job
$ arcstat -l "$JOB_ID"
```

#### References

- [ARC: submit a job](http://www.nordugrid.org/arc/arc6/users/submit_job.html)
- [ARC client tools](http://www.nordugrid.org/arc/arc6/users/client_tools.html)

> ### To a CREAM Computing Element

Reviewer: so we need this given that it's not supported anymore?

Author: I will remove it if I can't get it to work, but the fact is that there are still production CREAM CE in the infrastructure, expected to be maintained locally.

Author: I've rephrased this part, I think that now it can probably kept like this.

[High Throughput Compute (HTC)](../../compute/high-throughput-compute) jobs
using command-line.

## Prerequisites

To submit an EGI HTC job, you will have to:

1. Obtain an X.509 user certificate. The supported certificates are issued by
   Certification Authorities (CAs) part of the
   [European Policy Management Authority for Grid Authentication (EUGridPMA)](https://www.eugridpma.org),
   which is also part of the
   [International Global Trust Federation (IGTF)](https://www.igtf.net).
1. Enrol into a VO having access to HTC resources.

> This tutorial will be using `dteam` a test Virtual Organisation that can be
> used by resource providers, commands should be adjusted to the appropriate VO.

## Step 1: getting access to a User Interface (UI)

In order to interact with HTC resources, you should have access to a
`User Interface`, often referred to as a `UI`. This software environment will
provide all the tools required to interact with the different middleware, as
different sites can be using different Computing Element (CE), such as
HTCondorCE and ARC-CE (CREAM is a legacy software stack that is not officially
supported).

Different possibilities are available to access an UI:

> - Having access to an UI provided by/for your community

Reviewer 2: Could we have one or two examples?

Author: There isn't any real generic examples, but some advanced community have or can provide some UI to their users, like by granting them access to a VM with all the required tool installed and the their specific VO configured. for CMS there is cmsconnect, but I'm not sure it would be helpful to mention this.

    '(&(objectClass=GLUE2Endpoint)(GLUE2EndpointImplementationName=HTCondor))' \
    GLUE2EndpointInterfaceName \
    GLUE2EndpointImplementationVersion \
    GLUE2EndpointURL

# To have the version of the HTCondor batch system
$ ldapsearch -x -LLL -H ldap://lcg-bdii.egi.eu:2170 \
    -b "GLUE2GroupID=grid,o=glue" \
   '(&(objectClass=GLUE2Manager)(GLUE2ManagerProductName=HTCondor))' \
   GLUE2ManagerProductVersion \
   GLUE2ComputingManagerTotalLogicalCPUs \
   GLUE2ComputingManagerComputingServiceForeignKey
```

It's also possible to look into GLUE 1.3.

```shell
# Querying for all HTCondorCE compute resources, using GLUE 1.3
$ ldapsearch -x -LLL -H ldap://lcg-bdii.egi.eu:2170 \
    -b "Mds-Vo-Name=local,o=grid" \
    '(&(objectClass=GlueCE)(GlueCEInfoJobManager=HTCondorCE))' \
    GlueCEImplementationVersion GlueCEImplementationName \
    GlueCEStateStatus GlueCEUniqueID GlueServiceEndpoint GlueServiceType
```

### Querying for ARC-CE compute resources

Most, if not all the ARC-CE should be discoverable via GLUE 2.0.

```shell
# Querying for all HTCondorCE compute resources, using GLUE 2.0
$ ldapsearch -x -LLL -H ldap://lcg-bdii.egi.eu:2170 \
    -b "GLUE2GroupID=grid,o=glue" \

>     '(&(objectClass=GLUE2Endpoint)(GLUE2EndpointImplementationName=ARC-CE))' \

Reviewer: i think the correct value for GLUE2EndpointImplementationName is _nordugrid-arc_

Reviewer 3: yes, it should be GLUE2EndpointImplementationName=nordugrid-arc

Author: Fixed, thanks!
